In this lecture,
I want to talk about distributed tracing.
This is our hello world application again,
and what you want to do now is to trace the requests.
You see that we have requests from
istio-ingress to the hello app,
from the hello app to the world app,
and from the world app to the world-2 app.
Those requests you can trace to use for debugging purposes
when something goes wrong,
and you can see the requests and how they were handled.
So let's launch our hello world app again,
and then I will use jaeger
to show you the distributed tracing.
Let's first start jaeger.
Jaeger is automatically installed in
istio-system.
So here we have the istio-tracing bot which is running,
and is actually jaeger.
It also has service,
so if you do kubectl get svc
istio-system,
you here see the jaeger-agent, the collector, and the query.
And it's the query that we can use
that has a graphical interface to see the traces.
Right now, this only has a ClusterIP,
so you would have to use port forwarding,
kubectl port forwarding for example,
to access this port.
What you also can do is
you can export this one using a loan balancer.
So I'm going to do kubectl edit of this
svc jaeger-query
in the namespace
istio-system,
and then I'm going to change the type
from ClusterIP into LoadBalancer,
and then this will spin up a load balancer for us.
This might take some time.
In the meantime I'm going to redeploy the hello world app.
Kubectl apply with kube-inject of our helloworld.yaml
and we're going to apply the helloworld gateway.
This is going to create an endpoint
on slash hello on the load balancer.
Let's have a look where the load balancer is.
Istio-ingress.
Let's do curl
on the hello endpoint,
and now it is hello world.
So we'll just do these a few times
and then here, if I scroll up, you can see that
the jaeger-query also has a load balancer now,
and this is the url to reach it.
Can take a few minutes before you can reach this one.
Same as the other load balancers,
so you might have to wait some time.
You can just execute some more curls
so that we have some data in our jaeger interface
to drill down on.
I also had to make a change to the app
to make sure that I forward the headers supplied by
the instio-ingress.
Those headers are pretty default.
Those are open-trace headers.
So if you have a look at the http-echo service,
you'll find tracing.go that defines the headers
that I am forwarding to the other service
when making a request.
So when I have an incoming request
on the hello app, for example,
then the hello app will read these headers.
These headers come with values,
like, for example, the request ID,
and it will reuse these headers
when contacting the next service.
The next service is the hello service,
so when contacting the hello service
it will forward these headers
so that we don't lose this information.
And so in a trace,
we have one nice trace of our hello world and world-2,
because they have the same request ID.
Let's have a look at jaeger.
This is the load balancer host
and this is the port.
So the port is 16686 that jaeger is using.
You can do a lookup by trace ID or you can just find traces.
Let's select a service,
for example the hello service,
and then just click Find Traces.
Here then I have a diagram of when the traces happened.
I did some traces before I did this demo
and I did some traces right now.
Let's have a look when we drill down to a trace.
We have istio-ingress gateway to our hello service,
14 spans,
and then we see that there was lots of traffic.
I'm just going to collapse some of them
so that it's a little bit easier to read.
We also have policy checks that are happening
in the tracing that you can collapse
to make it more readable.
So we start from the istio-ingressgateway.
We go to the hello app.
The hello app is right here.
Then we go to the world app.
In the world app, we contact the
world-2 app,
and then we end up at the world-2 app,
and the world-2 app just responds with some text
and doesn't contact any service.
Here we have the istio-policies,
so these are the policy checks
that are being done at the service level as well,
so you can see those as well.
So if you drill down, for example,
here to hello
you can actually see some more information.
For example, the url that had been used,
the tags, the IP address, the request ID.
Here's the request ID that you can use.
If you open this, then you can see better.
So here for example you have the request ID
that you can use.
And this request ID here that ends with 33
should be the same when we, for example,
have a look here in the world-2 app.
We have the same ID here.
So this ends with
ae33,
ae33.
So this is a unique ID that you can use for that request.
If something goes wrong with that request,
you can drill down
and you will find even on the service itself
that the header of the response
contains this x-request-id
so that you can use it for debugging purposes.
So this is a very useful tool to do distribute tracing
to see if there goes something wrong,
it takes a long time for a service to respond, for example,
and know how your services communicate.
For that you can also use dependencies.
So if you click on Dependencies, you can click on DAC
and here you have a very nice diagram.
You might have to move the services a bit,
and then you see nicely.
We have incoming requests from the istio-ingressgateway.
All these services use istio-policy
to check the access control.
If you have access to regess service,
then we go to the hello app,
hello app will go to the world app,
and world app will go to world-2 app.
Istio-policy communicates with istio-mixer,
and istio-telemetry gets its telemetry
from the istio-mixer as well.
If you have a lot more services,
then this DAC will become bigger.
Then you will see nicely how your services communicate.
So that is it for distribute tracing.
If you are deploying your own app,
you can have a look here
at the tracing.go and the main go,
how to implement the forwarding of the headers,
or you can have a look in the Istio documentation
has also examples of bitem and java.
It's fairly easy to implement this in your services.